docs/content/documentation/content/shortcodes.md, before:

+++
title = "Shortcodes"
weight = 40
+++

While Markdown is good at writing, it isn't great when you need write inline
HTML to add some styling for example.

To solve this, Gutenberg borrows the concept of [shortcodes](https://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode_API) 
from WordPress.
In our case, the shortcode corresponds to a template that is defined in the `templates/shortcodes` directory or a built-in one.

## Writing a shortcode
Let's write a shortcode to embed YouTube videos as an example.
In a file called `youtube.html` in the `templates/shortcodes` directory, paste the
following:

```jinja2
<div {% if class %}class="{{class}}"{% endif %}>
    <iframe 
        src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/{{id}}{% if autoplay %}?autoplay=1{% endif %}" 
        webkitallowfullscreen 
        mozallowfullscreen 
        allowfullscreen>
    </iframe>
</div>
```

This template is very straightforward: an iframe pointing to the YouTube embed URL wrapped in a `<div>`.
In terms of input, it expects at least one variable: `id`. Since the other variables
are in a `if` statement, we can assume they are optional.

That's it, Gutenberg will now recognise this template as a shortcode named `youtube` (the filename minus the `.html` extension).

## Using shortcodes

There are two kinds of shortcodes: 

- ones that do not take a body like the YouTube example above
- ones that do, a quote for example

In both cases, their arguments must be named and they will all be passed to the template.

Any shortcodes in code blocks will be ignored.

Lastly, a shortcode name (and thus the corresponding `.html` file) as well as the arguments name 
can only contain numbers, letters and underscores, or in Regex terms the following: `[0-9A-Za-z_]`.
While theoretically an argument name could be a number, it will not be possible to use it in the template in that case.

Argument values can be of 4 types:

- string: surrounded by double quotes `"..."`
- bool: `true` or `false`
- float: a number with a `.` in it
- integer: a number without a `.` in it

Malformed values will be silently ignored.

### Shortcodes without body

On a new line, call the shortcode as if it was a Tera function in a variable block. All the examples below are valid
calls of the YouTube shortcode.

```md
Here is a YouTube video:

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true) }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true, class="youtube") }}
```

### Shortcodes with body
For example, let's imagine we have the following shortcode `quote.html` template:

```jinja2
<blockquote>
    {{ body }} <br>
    -- {{ author}}
</blockquote>
```

We could use it in our markup file like so:

```md
As someone said:

{% quote(author="Vincent") %}
A quote
{% end %}
```

The body of the shortcode will be automatically passed down to the rendering context as the `body` variable and needs
to be in a newline.

## Built-in shortcodes

Gutenberg comes with a few built-in shortcodes. If you want to override a default shortcode template,
simply place a `{shortcode_name}.html` file in the `templates/shortcodes` directory and Gutenberg will
use that instead.

### YouTube
Embed a responsive player for a YouTube video.

The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe
- `autoplay`: whether to autoplay the video on load

Usage example:

```md
{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true) }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true, class="youtube") }}
```

Result example:

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

### Vimeo
Embed a player for a Vimeo video.

The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ vimeo(id="124313553") }}

{{ vimeo(id="124313553", class="vimeo") }}
```

Result example:

{{ vimeo(id="124313553") }}

### Streamable
Embed a player for a Streamable video.
 
The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ streamable(id="2zt0") }}

{{ streamable(id="2zt0", class="streamble") }}
```

Result example:

{{ streamable(id="2zt0") }}

### Gist
Embed a [Github gist]().

The arguments are:

- `url`: the url to the gist (mandatory)
- `file`: by default, the shortcode will pull every file from the URL unless a specific filename is requested
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57") }}

{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57", class="gist") }}
```

Result example:

{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57") }}

Commit message:

Fix shortcode parsing for some edge cases
This commit uses regular expressions that more carefully handle edge
cases when parsing shortcodes, such as argument string values with
commas in them. The `can_parse_shortcode_string_with_comma` and
`can_parse_shortcode_string_with_closing_paren_brace` tests failed
before this change.

This doesn't entirely fix shortcode parsing because the regex is
applied after parsing Markdown, but it's an improvement.

docs/content/documentation/content/shortcodes.md, after:

+++
title = "Shortcodes"
weight = 40
+++

While Markdown is good at writing, it isn't great when you need write inline
HTML to add some styling for example.

To solve this, Gutenberg borrows the concept of [shortcodes](https://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode_API) 
from WordPress.
In our case, the shortcode corresponds to a template that is defined in the `templates/shortcodes` directory or a built-in one.

## Writing a shortcode
Let's write a shortcode to embed YouTube videos as an example.
In a file called `youtube.html` in the `templates/shortcodes` directory, paste the
following:

```jinja2
<div {% if class %}class="{{class}}"{% endif %}>
    <iframe 
        src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/{{id}}{% if autoplay %}?autoplay=1{% endif %}" 
        webkitallowfullscreen 
        mozallowfullscreen 
        allowfullscreen>
    </iframe>
</div>
```

This template is very straightforward: an iframe pointing to the YouTube embed URL wrapped in a `<div>`.
In terms of input, it expects at least one variable: `id`. Since the other variables
are in a `if` statement, we can assume they are optional.

That's it, Gutenberg will now recognise this template as a shortcode named `youtube` (the filename minus the `.html` extension).

## Using shortcodes

There are two kinds of shortcodes: 

- ones that do not take a body like the YouTube example above
- ones that do, a quote for example

In both cases, their arguments must be named and they will all be passed to the template.

Any shortcodes in code blocks will be ignored.

Lastly, a shortcode name (and thus the corresponding `.html` file) as well as the arguments name 
can only contain numbers, letters and underscores, or in Regex terms the following: `[0-9A-Za-z_]`.
While theoretically an argument name could be a number, it will not be possible to use it in the template in that case.

Argument values can be of 4 types:

- string: surrounded by double quotes `"..."` (no escaping is performed)
- bool: `true` or `false`
- float: a number with a `.` or `e` in it, or `NaN` (which is interpreted as no value provided)
- integer: a number without a `.` in it

Malformed values will cause the shortcode to be silently ignored.

### Shortcodes without body

On a new line, call the shortcode as if it was a Tera function in a variable block. All the examples below are valid
calls of the YouTube shortcode.

```md
Here is a YouTube video:

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true) }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true, class="youtube") }}
```

### Shortcodes with body
For example, let's imagine we have the following shortcode `quote.html` template:

```jinja2
<blockquote>
    {{ body }} <br>
    -- {{ author}}
</blockquote>
```

We could use it in our markup file like so:

```md
As someone said:

{% quote(author="Vincent") %}
A quote
{% end %}
```

The body of the shortcode will be automatically passed down to the rendering context as the `body` variable and needs
to be in a newline.

## Built-in shortcodes

Gutenberg comes with a few built-in shortcodes. If you want to override a default shortcode template,
simply place a `{shortcode_name}.html` file in the `templates/shortcodes` directory and Gutenberg will
use that instead.

### YouTube
Embed a responsive player for a YouTube video.

The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe
- `autoplay`: whether to autoplay the video on load

Usage example:

```md
{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true) }}

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ", autoplay=true, class="youtube") }}
```

Result example:

{{ youtube(id="dQw4w9WgXcQ") }}

### Vimeo
Embed a player for a Vimeo video.

The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ vimeo(id="124313553") }}

{{ vimeo(id="124313553", class="vimeo") }}
```

Result example:

{{ vimeo(id="124313553") }}

### Streamable
Embed a player for a Streamable video.
 
The arguments are:

- `id`: the video id (mandatory)
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ streamable(id="2zt0") }}

{{ streamable(id="2zt0", class="streamble") }}
```

Result example:

{{ streamable(id="2zt0") }}

### Gist
Embed a [Github gist]().

The arguments are:

- `url`: the url to the gist (mandatory)
- `file`: by default, the shortcode will pull every file from the URL unless a specific filename is requested
- `class`: a class to add the `div` surrounding the iframe

Usage example:

```md
{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57") }}

{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57", class="gist") }}
```

Result example:

{{ gist(url="https://gist.github.com/Keats/e5fb6aad409f28721c0ba14161644c57") }}
